[Music]
attention all Jim has hey even if it's
not your first time at the gym you might
still make some common exercise mistakes
that can run from innocent enough
mishaps ones that'll make all your
effort go down the drain to more
dangerous blunders that can seriously
harm your body so check it out if you
keep your elbows too close to each other
while doing chest presses you shift the
tension from your chest to the front of
your shoulders and triceps no wonder
your chest doesn't feel any different
after a long workout avoid running on
the treadmill while holding on to the
handrails it's not only ineffective but
it also messes up your posture if you
have problems with letting go of the
rails it may mean that your speed is too
high take it down a few notches and work
your way up at a safe pace it's also a
bad idea to go above the 8% incline on
the treadmill yes it does make running
harder but at the same time it puts
unnecessary strain on your ankles back
and hips when doing cable tricep
extensions some people don't lock their
elbows that's why their lats get engaged
and the exercise ends up being not so
effective for the triceps another
mistake you should steer clear of is
keeping your body upright this way you
don't get a full range of motion try
bending a bit forward it'll help target
your biceps using an exercise bike has
some tricky points as well and the main
one is bad positioning if the pedals are
adjusted in the wrong way it can cause
thigh knee or hip strain when the pedals
are at their lowest points your leg
should be stretched and have a very
slight bend in the knee improper
handlebar placement can also give you
lower back pain keep the handlebar a bit
lower than the saddle so that your arms
are extended when you're holding on to
it if you notice that your knee touches
the ground every time you do a lunge
something has definitely gone wrong it's
okay if it happens once or twice but
otherwise it'll take all the tension off
your legs and all your effort will be
wasted in the worst case you can hurt
your knee doing static stretching that's
when you're holding a challenging
position for
about 30 seconds before a workout will
get you nowhere
this exercise slows down your heart rate
and reduces muscle soreness static
stretching is perfect for after the
workout as for a pre-training warmup do
some dynamic stretching like forward
lunges the worst thing to do during
pull-ups are swinging your body to try
and gain momentum letting your body
flail around by not bracing your legs
and core and limiting your range of
motion it happens when you don't pull
yourself high enough and don't dip your
body low enough these mistakes make all
your effort ineffective the most common
mistake with skull crushers is doing
skull crushers now it's swinging the bar
up behind the head your elbows and
shoulders shouldn't move and the bar
should stop right above your forehead
hence the name of the exercise if you're
swinging your shoulders or spreading
your elbows it takes the work off the
triceps defeating the whole purpose and
don't curve your back too much it should
remain in its neutral position if you do
some rowing avoid putting all the
pressure on your arms it'll result in
too much stress put on your upper body
which is likely to cause shoulder and
back injuries keep in mind that more
than half of your power is supposed to
come from pushing against the foot panel
with your legs the rest should be
divided between their arms and core if
you go too low while doing dips on
parallel bars you put too much pressure
on your shoulders and it can lead to
muscle damage try not to go lower than
when your upper arms are parallel to the
ground and lean a bit forward so that
your chest is further out than your hips
if you swing back too much while doing
lateral pull downs you're at risk of
getting a back injury make sure you
stand under the bar this will make it
almost impossible for you to swing and
don't pull the bar too low it turns the
exercise into an ineffective waste of
time instead bring the bar down so it
touches your upper chest or just your
chin and one more thing don't keep your
elbows too close to each other when
you're doing cable fly's don't bring
your arms too far back it can lead to a
shoulder injury you also shouldn't keep
your elbows locked well
this exercise otherwise you'll put all
the stress on your elbows and almost
none on your chest muscles now it may
sound ridiculous and kind of obvious but
some gym goers seriously injured
themselves when they jump off the
treadmill while it's still in motion
come on guys wait until it comes to a
complete stop
and only then step down on solid ground
then you can fall over oh by the way
have you ever witnessed any funny
situations at the gym share them in the
comments below but I've got more tips so
let's keep it rolling one of the worst
mistakes you can make while doing squats
is caving your knees in it robs the
whole exercise of its effectiveness and
doesn't let you gain muscles but what's
worse it can lead to a bad knee injury
try your best to keep your hips ankles
and knees immobile and make sure your
legs are parallel to each other
lifting weights is the very exercise you
should be extremely careful with because
if you do even the tiniest move
incorrectly you can have big problems
with your back for example too many gym
goers bend their spines while doing bent
over barbell rows during this exercise
you have to keep your back flat and your
shoulders moved a bit back and down
lunges are a perfect and simple way to
train your glutes and quads and still a
lot of beginners and not only them
regularly let their front knee cave in
or bend their upper body forward
shifting their weight onto that forward
foot in the long run such a technique
can lead to a leg injury the main thing
about this exercise is holding your back
straight and keeping your balance also
make sure you're lunging step isn't too
small if you put your feet too close
together they'll form a triangle and
what you need is a square now at first
sight sit-ups seem like a simple
exercise but doing them incorrectly can
lead to serious problems with your back
and neck never push your head forward
with too much strength especially with
your hands try not to round your lower
back
do your best to go slowly otherwise
you're likely just a rock back and forth
if you make these mistakes once they
won't do much harm
but repeating them regularly will cause
permanent damage whatever exercise you
do avoid putting too much pressure on
your shoulders
they can withstand a lot of stress and
have a wide range of motion but they're
not immune to strain and serious
injuries and finally never ever ignore
an injury that's the worst thing you can
do to your body I know how hard it can
be to make yourself skip a workout once
you've established a training routine
but paying no attention to pain will
land you in an ocean of troubles you see
if you don't treat your injury you'll
end up with the same problem again but
next time it'll be way more serious
kudos to you for having the motivation
and discipline to work out but be safe
out there and if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share with a friend here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the